.TH AMPLITUDE\-WIZARD 1 "2026" "@amplitude/wizard" "Amplitude Wizard"
.SH NAME
amplitude\-wizard \- instrument your app with Amplitude analytics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B amplitude\-wizard
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.br
.B amplitude\-wizard
\fICOMMAND\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBamplitude\-wizard\fR is an interactive CLI that instruments applications with
Amplitude analytics. It authenticates the user, detects the project framework,
runs a Claude\-powered agent to set up the SDK and track events, and guides the
user through their first chart and dashboard.
.PP
Run without arguments to launch the interactive TUI wizard. The wizard
auto\-detects your framework (Next.js, React, Vue, Django, Flask, FastAPI, etc.)
and writes the necessary SDK boilerplate.
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fB(default)\fR
Run the interactive Amplitude setup wizard. Launches a full\-screen TUI.
.TP
\fBlogin\fR
Log in to your Amplitude account via browser OAuth. Credentials are stored in
\fI~/.ampli.json\fR for subsequent runs.
.TP
\fBlogout\fR
Remove the locally stored Amplitude credentials.
.TP
\fBwhoami\fR
Print the currently logged\-in user and org.
.TP
\fBslack\fR
Set up the Amplitude Slack integration.
.TP
\fBmcp add\fR
Install the Amplitude MCP server into supported AI clients (Claude, Cursor, etc.).
.TP
\fBmcp remove\fR
Remove the Amplitude MCP server from supported AI clients.
.SH OPTIONS
.SS Global options
.TP
\fB\-\-debug\fR
Enable verbose logging to the log file and console.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_DEBUG\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-verbose\fR
Print diagnostic info (working directory, detected framework, config) to the
run log.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_VERBOSE\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-signup\fR
Create a new Amplitude account during setup instead of logging in.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_SIGNUP\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-ci\fR
Enable non\-interactive CI mode. Requires \fB\-\-api\-key\fR and \fB\-\-install\-dir\fR.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_CI\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-api\-key\fR \fIKEY\fR
Amplitude project API key. Skips the browser OAuth flow entirely.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_API_KEY\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-project\-id\fR \fIID\fR
Amplitude project ID. Optional; defaults to the project associated with the
API key or the saved OAuth session.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_PROJECT_ID\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-local\-mcp\fR
Route MCP calls to a local server at \fIhttp://localhost:8787/mcp\fR instead of
the production endpoint.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_LOCAL_MCP\fR
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Show help and exit.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print the package version and exit.
.SS Wizard (default command) options
.TP
\fB\-\-integration\fR \fIFRAMEWORK\fR
Skip auto\-detection and use the specified framework integration. Choices:
\fBnextjs\fR, \fBvue\fR, \fBreact\-router\fR, \fBdjango\fR, \fBflask\fR, \fBfastapi\fR,
\fBjavascript_web\fR, \fBjavascript_node\fR, \fBpython\fR.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_INTEGRATION\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-install\-dir\fR \fIDIR\fR
Directory to install Amplitude in. Defaults to the current working directory.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_INSTALL_DIR\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-force\-install\fR
Force package installation even if peer dependency checks fail.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_FORCE_INSTALL\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-menu\fR
Show the framework selection menu instead of auto\-detecting.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_MENU\fR
.TP
\fB\-\-benchmark\fR
Run in benchmark mode with per\-phase token tracking.
Environment variable: \fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_BENCHMARK\fR
.SS login options
.TP
\fB\-\-zone\fR \fIus\fR|\fIeu\fR
Amplitude data center zone. Default: \fBus\fR.
.SH ENVIRONMENT
All flags can also be set as environment variables by prefixing with
\fBAMPLITUDE_WIZARD_\fR and uppercasing. For example:
.PP
.nf
export AMPLITUDE_WIZARD_API_KEY=my\-key
export AMPLITUDE_WIZARD_CI=true
amplitude\-wizard
.fi
.SH FILES
.TP
\fI~/.ampli.json\fR
Stores the OAuth access token, refresh token, and user metadata (name, email,
org, zone). Written by \fBlogin\fR and cleared by \fBlogout\fR.
.TP
\fI./ampli.json\fR
Project\-level config written by the wizard after setup. Contains the Amplitude
Source ID, Project ID, SDK runtime, and branch information.
.TP
\fI/tmp/amplitude\-wizard.log\fR
Runtime log file. Captures verbose/debug output and agent traces.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run the wizard in the current directory:
.nf
amplitude\-wizard
.fi
.TP
Run the wizard against a specific directory:
.nf
amplitude\-wizard \-\-install\-dir /path/to/project
.fi
.TP
Run in CI (non\-interactive):
.nf
amplitude\-wizard \-\-ci \-\-api\-key <key> \-\-install\-dir .
.fi
.TP
Force Next.js integration without auto\-detection:
.nf
amplitude\-wizard \-\-integration nextjs
.fi
.TP
Log in to the EU data center:
.nf
amplitude\-wizard login \-\-zone eu
.fi
.SH SEE ALSO
Full documentation and source: \fIhttps://github.com/amplitude/wizard\fR
